Top of Form


Course Contents Course Code: EEE241 Course Title: Digital Logic Design Credit Hours: 4(3,1) Corequisite(s): Prerequisite(s): CSC102 
Course Learning Outcomes / Course Objectives : This is a basic course which concentrates on the basic methods of digital hardware designing. The students will learn different techniques to design simple to moderate level digital hardware. The course contains extensive lab work, in which students will learn to design at IC level. Students will also learn to design basic building blocks of digital logic using hardware descriptive language (Verilog/VHDL). 
Syllabus / Theory Course Outline : Introduction to Digital Computer and Systems, Number Systems, Binary Arithmetic, Boolean Algebra, Algebraic Manipulation, Canonical and Standard Form & Conversions, Logical Operations and Gates, Simplification of Functions, Karnaugh Map Methods, Two Level Implementations, Don't Care Conditions, Prime Implicants, Combinational Logic Design, Arithmetic Operations and Circuits, Analysis Procedures, Multilevel NAND/NOR Circuits, Decoders, Encoders, Multiplexers, Demultiplexers, Sequential Logic, Flip-Flops, Clocked Sequential Circuits, State Machine Concept, Design of Sequential Circuits using State Machines, Counters and their Design, Synchronous Counters, Asynchronous Counters, Register, Shift Registers, Universal shift register, Introduction to Programmable Logic architectures (e.g., PAL, PLA, CPLD, FPGAs). Introduction of hardware descriptive language (Verilog/VHDL) and its abstraction levels to design combinational and sequential circuits and their implementation on FPGAs. 
Practical Requirements : There is also a laboratory component in this course. Lab work consists of a minimum of 12 experiments and related assignments, which constitute 25% of the overall course-grade. The laboratory experiments include hands-on exercises to practically implement concepts learnt in the lectures. 
Suggested Instructional Reading Material : 1. Digital Design: With an Introduction to Verilog HDL by M. Morris Mano and Michael D. Ciletti, Fifth edition, Prentice Hall, 2013 2. Digital Design with RTL Design, VHDL, and Verilog by Frank Vahid, Second edition, John Wiley 2011 Reference Books: 1. Digital Logic Design Using Verilog: Coding and RTL Synthesis by Vaibbhav Taraate, First Edition, Springer 2021 2. Verilog HDL: A Guide to Digital Design and Synthesis by Samir Palnitkar, Second Edition, Pearson Education 2003 3. Digital Fundamentals by Thomas L. Floyd and R. P. Jain, Eleventh Edition, Pearson 2014 4. Fundamentals of Logic Design by Charles H. Roth Jr. and Larry L. Kinney, 7th Edition, 2013 
Bottom of Form
