Top of Form


Course Contents Course Code: MGT403 Course Title: Entrepreneurship Credit Hours: 3(3,0) Corequisite(s): Prerequisite(s): MGT101 
This class addresses the unique entrepreneurial experience of conceiving, evaluating, creating, and managing a business. The goal is to provide a solid background with practical application of important concepts applicable to entrepreneurial environment. Entrepreneurial discussions regarding the key business areas of management, marketing, and finance, include the creative aspects of entrepreneurship. It examines the strategic challenges and managerial issues faced during entrepreneurial endeavours, including new product development, creating primary demand, viability of venture, acquiring resources and obtaining financing. The course relies on classroom discussion, participation, guest speakers, case analysis, the creation of a feasibility plan, and building a business plan to develop a comprehensive strategy for launching and managing a business. Students will need to draw upon their business education and experience, and apply it to create a realistic business plan. Students are expected to interact with the business community, advisors, be able to work effectively in teams, and be active participants in classroom discussions and exercises. Course Learning Outcomes / Course Objectives : Course Learning Outcomes After completing this course, the student will be able to; No Description Taxonomy Level PLO Mapping WKs CLO:1 Demonstrate importance of small and medium enterprises C2 PLO-12 WK3 CLO:2 Develop an understanding of factors governing documentation, registration process, organization structure development C2 PLO-10 WK3 CLO:3 Execution of public organization dealing and relationship an Entrepreneur 
Syllabus / Theory Course Outline : Introduction: The concept of entrepreneurship, the economist view of entrepreneurship, The sociologist view, Behavioral approach, Entrepreneurship and Management, The Practice of Entrepreneurship: The process of entrepreneurship, Entrepreneurial Management, The entrepreneurial business, Entrepreneurship in service institutions, The new venture, Entrepreneurship and Innovation: The innovation concepts, Importance of innovation for entrepreneurship, Sources of innovative opportunities, The innovation process, Risks involved in innovation, Developing Entrepreneur: Entrepreneurial profile, Trait approach to understanding entrepreneurship, Factors influencing entrepreneurship, The environment, Socio cultural factors, Support systems, Entrepreneurship Organization: Team work, Networking organization, Motivation and compensation, Value system, Entrepreneurship and SMES: Defining SMEs, Scope of SMEs, Entrepreneurial, managers of SME, Financial and marketing problems of SMEs, Entrepreneurial Marketing: Framework for developing entrepreneurial marketing, Devising entrepreneurial marketing plan, Entrepreneurial marketing strategies, Product quality and design, Entrepreneurship and Economic Development: Role of entrepreneur in the economic development generation of services, Employment creation and training, Ideas, knowledge and skill development, The Japanese experience Case Studies of Successful Entrepreneurs. 
Practical Requirements : - 
Suggested Instructional Reading Material : Paul Burns and Jim Dew Hurst: Small Business and Entrepreneurship P.N. Singh: Entrepreneurship for Economic Growth Peter F. Drucker: Innovation and Entrepreneurship Peter F. Drucker John B. Miner: Entrepreneurial Success. 
Bottom of Form
